[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: So I
thought for Christmas--
SPEAKER 2: It is Christmas.
SPEAKER 1: It is Christmas.
We'll pick 12 subjects that
we're excited about for 2018.
And, like, we can quiz
each other about them
in two minutes.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, all right.
Got it.
SPEAKER 1: OK, my subject
for the two minutes
is Background Fetch.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, Background Fetch.
Didn't we have that before?
SPEAKER 1: No.
SPEAKER 2: What was the
thing that we had before?
SPEAKER 1: Oh, you're
thinking of Background Sync.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
SPEAKER 1: Background
Sync, service worker event
that would happen next
time you had connectivity.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: And you could do sort
of whatever you wanted there.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: It's not that.
SPEAKER 2: What is
Background Fetch?
SPEAKER 1: Now, that's a
very open-ended question,
which you could have said--
SPEAKER 2: What is the use
case for Background Fetch?
SPEAKER 1: Right.
So think about a long download
that's going to maybe take--
SPEAKER 2: Videos.
SPEAKER 1: A video,
yeah, good one.
Right?
And that could take hours, days.
We don't want the
browser to be--
SPEAKER 2: [LAUGHS]
SPEAKER 1: It could take days.
Remember, I mean,
videos get big.
Mobile data is slow.
Or you could be
offline for a while.
And we don't want the
mobile to-- the browser
to have to be awake
for the whole thing.
SPEAKER 2: OK, so basically,
with the outsourcing,
the Fetch thing to the
operating system rather than--
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: On desktop,
though, as well?
SPEAKER 1: Yes is the plan.
But probably mobile first.
SPEAKER 2: Yes, because--
SPEAKER 1: But also desktop.
SPEAKER 2: --that
makes more sense.
OK.
So do we have an origin
trial or something?
SPEAKER 1: There's
something in Canary now.
That's pretty good.
And it means we don't actually
need user permission to do this
because you can
already start downloads
without user permission.
SPEAKER 2: That's true.
SPEAKER 1: The idea is to make
sure it's fully visible all
the time so you can see the
progress of the download.
You can give it an
icon, give it a title.
So the user's aware
that it's happening.
They can cancel it if they want.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
But, like, can I put, like,
a 20-gig video into cache
API now?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
If you have persistent
data, you have
as much space as you can eat.
You need to ask for that.
That does require permission.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
Because that's a lot of data.
SPEAKER 1: That
is a lot of data.
But people like movies, right?
And you don't want them
disappearing to such a--
SPEAKER 2: Citation needed.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
People do like movies.
Look, there's loads of them.
We build big buildings
where we show them.
I've seen these.
SPEAKER 2: All right,
so we have it in Canary.
Any other browser signals?
SPEAKER 1: Positive signals
for a couple of browsers,
but it's just Chrome for now.
And that will be 2018.
[CHRISTMAS MUSIC PLAYS]
That was two minutes.
SPEAKER 2: That was spot on.
SPEAKER 1: OK, now,
what's a Worklet?
SPEAKER 2: Worklet
is like a worker,
to potentially off-thread thing.
But it's more like wait.